[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>BRUCE LIPTON: If toxic
substances come into the body,
if they're allowed
into the body,
they interfere with the
propagation of signals
because signals are carried
by, many times, chemical
and electrochemical pathways.
And if I have toxins
in the system,
the toxins distort the signal.
And the distorted signal
derives a distorted result.
So therefore, yes,
toxins interfere
with the ability of
the system to stay
in balance in homeostasis.
>>MICHAEL BECKWITH: Detox is
very difficult for people.
When you begin to
shift your way of life,
all of those old patterns
and all of the chemicals
that are in the cells themselves
that begin to be released,
as it begin to be
transmitted, person
has to be very strong,
very courageous,
and have strong intention to
move through that process.
>>DAVID WOLFE:
Getting the gunk out,
it's like stirring up the mud.
And it's going to cause people
to have high energy then
low energy.
It's going to cause stuff
to come out of their pores.
to come out of their mouth.
It's going to cause
all kinds of what we
call detoxification episodes.
And that's a little
rough sometimes,
but it's a good thing.
I think once you really
get on the natural food,
and you have a little bit
of education around it,
you realize that it's not the
food that's doing it to you.
It's your body saying, time
to get out the garbage now
we have enough energy.
Now we have the right
kind of nutrients.
Now we have enough fiber,
whatever, minerals to get out
the stuff that's excess.
>>KARYN CALABRESE: Cleansing
and detoxifying our bodies,
I believe, is the
number one tool
for staying healthy,
young, and vibrant.
I don't think it has
anything to do necessarily
with the title of being a vegan
or raw foodist or a vegetarian.
I think all of those
things are wonderful,
and they're great things
to attain and to make
our lives simpler and easier.
But the reality is, to
make everything work,
we must cleanse and
detoxify our bodies.
I've met many, many raw
foodists over the years that
don't look much healthier
than some of our meat eaters.
I've met many vegetarians.
I've met many raw foodists.
I believe that the health that
I enjoy continually for over 35
years is because I have been
cleansing and detoxifying
our bodies.
We could pretend that we
just have a little cell.
And we know we have billions
and billions of cells.
And what we do is we build up
layer and layer of toxicity
over the years because
our bodies weren't meant
to assimilate 99% of
what most people are
putting in their bodies.
But this marvelous
machine goes, OK, I'm
going to do the best I can.
It takes it in, but
it has to take away
from the other processes of
the body regenerating itself.
So when you cleanse
and detoxify,
you start to break down
the layers of toxicity
that you're building up.
And you don't have to
be eating improper foods
to do that-- just
driving around in a car.
You're driving behind buses.
I get my clothes dry cleaned.
I eat what some people
would call perfectly.
And I cleanse and detoxify my
body a minimum of four times
a year.
>> MORGAN SPURLOCK: Right after
we finish "Super Size Me,"
we were still shooting, but
it was right after I finished
doing the diet
myself for 30 days.
My wife, Alex, put me on a
detox diet, a vegan detox,
where basically she
cut out all caffeine,
all sugar, all processed foods.
It was basically all whole
fruits and vegetables,
whole grains.
There was nothing
with additives.
There was nothing that
wasn't somehow based
on a natural product.
And I did this for eight weeks.
And over the first
few days, I mean,
I felt myself going through
massive withdrawal like a drug
addict.
I had massive headaches.
My head was pounding like crazy.
I started sweating
after a couple days.
I started getting the shakes.
And I mean, it was.
It was like going
through withdrawal.
And it lasted-- it was
almost exactly three days
until I kind of
had a breakthrough
and then suddenly
started to kind of feel
a little bit better.
But I mean, but that was it.
I went cold turkey
on everything.
It wasn't just a few things.
And I think that my body
was reeling from it.
>>LILLIAN MULLER: When you
go on a fruitarian diet,
it's almost like--
I call it a camouflaged fast
and because fruit is like--
it's so cleansing
and so detoxifying.
And you just like getting rid of
poison and junk and everything
that's accumulated
for all my 27 years.
I was like getting rid
of so much so quickly.
And though Gene
Stanley had told me
about the possible
elimination crisis,
I was not really prepared
and then those things happen.
What happened was that I will
get a lot of dizzy spells.
And I remember one time I was on
the freeway and driving up 405
and all of a sudden dizzy
spells and panicky and my heart
was beating really fast.
And I knew what was happening.
I knew I was getting into
an elimination moment.
>>ANGELA STOKES: When
you start to detox,
it's a really nice idea to
be gentle with yourself--
get a lot of sleep,
get a lot of rest.
I didn't do any of that stuff.
[LAUGHTER]
I was so out of
connection with this body.
And I was so used to pushing
this body all the time,
that that's the situation
I created for myself.
In my first week of
going 100% raw vegan,
I was on an adventure trip
in the north of Iceland.
I was white water rafting.
I was up sailing I
was horse riding.
I was like maybe 300
pounds and detoxing
at like a phenomenal rate.
So that was an interesting one.
Everyone thought I'd gone crazy,
first off-- or the other people
that I was with because
like I explained,
I was the person who's
eating three plates of pasta
for lunch.
There was never one
of anything for me.
It was always masses of food.
And then suddenly,
there I was on this trip
with a bag with just fruits
and vegetables and nuts
and seeds and oils and seaweed.
>> This was after abusing
myself nonstop for 30 days
on McDonald's.
So at the end of the
detox diet, my cholesterol
had gone back to normal.
My blood pressure
gone back to normal.
My liver function had
returned to normal.
And so the question was,
well, how much of that
was just going on this diet?
And how much of it was getting
rid of all that other crap
that I was shoveling
into my pie hole?
I don't know.
>>ANTHONY ROBBINS:
Energy is life.
I talk to people all the time.
And one thing that
people will talk about
is all things they want
to do in their life,
but they feel too tired or
too exhausted to burnout
or too stressed.
The first thing I say to
them is start with your body.
Its physiology first.
You make a change in
your physical body;
you'll see that change your
mental, emotional, spiritual
aspect of your life.
So I went initially on
just an absolute cleanse.
I went on a 10-day cleanse.
I was going to do
just watermelon.
[CHUCKLES] I didn't
quite do that,
but I did it for about
six or seven days.
Anybody who's been
on a fast knows
that the first two or
three days are hell,
And then you have more energy
than when you're eating.
It's bizarre.
And then you begin to realize,
wait, food is a source of fuel,
but it's not the
only source of fuel.
Why do you wake up in the
morning filled with energy?
But if you can give yourself
something that is alive,
you tend to feel more alive.
>> I remember, I had learned
to always drive my car.
And always at home, I
have a lot of bananas--
like bananas at
different stages,
because they are known to slow
down the elimination process
when that happens
really extreme.
And if you take bananas
when you're eliminating,
and you're getting
this lightheaded
spells, and also if you can
combine that with lying down
and lift up your leg higher
than your head, and of course,
breathing slowly, breathing
leading slowly, and relaxing
and thinking spiritual
thoughts and praying.
That's what I was doing.
I would lie down in my
car, and it would take,
I don't know, 15,
20, 30 minutes.
I'd sit down on the
side of the freeway.
And people are
looking what I was
doing because I
was sitting down,
lying down in the back seat
with my feet planted up
on the seat in front of me.
And always, like clockwork,
that would work for me--
the deep breathing, the bananas,
and relaxing, and praying,
and my elimination would
always slow down with that.
>> But for me, I think that
I felt better after doing her
detox diet.
And to this day, for a
few weeks a year, usually
for two or three
weeks, sometimes four--
I've haven't done the full eight
weeks since I did the movie--
but I'll go for like two
to three weeks, sometimes
four weeks and just detox
out, get rid of sugar,
not drink caffeine, cut meat
out of my diet or something
for an extended period of time.
>>GARY NULL: Anytime you
take a person off a very
unhealthy regimen, they're
going to feel better
for four or five days through
the detoxing and rebalancing
process.
They will go through mood swings
and energy swings, blood sugar
swings, or
biochemistry shifting.
But a real detox takes about
two years, not two days
or two weeks.
A real detox, you're
not going to do
but some bentonite clay
and some lemon and apple
cider vinegar juice.
The cells have chromosomes and
telomeres, the aging clock.
When those cells have been
damaged, everything speeds up.
You're speeding up
your aging clock.
It's repairing the
damage to the DNA
that is necessary to
reverse the disease process.
>> Because our bodies are
in a self-regenerating mode,
we have a God force flowing
through all of us of healing.
If you cut your finger
and you do nothing to it,
doesn't it heal up?
The entire body was
designed to do that.
And all of your challenges,
from diabetes to cancer
to Crohn's disease, these are
just the bodies screaming,
I have too much toxicity.
I need a way to show
you to make a change.
Unfortunately, in
our world, we're
taught to compartmentalize the
body and work on specific areas
with a lot of chemicals.
While I certainly would
never tell anybody
to not go to a doctor or
not to do something that's
comfortable for them,
what I do stress
is educate yourself
and try detoxifying.
I've been interviewed
many times over the years,
and they always say to me,
how do you know this is true,
Karyn?
Well, I don't have any type
of scientific background.
And my general
answer is to try it.
Try it for one week.
Cause and effect, there's
no way it can't work.
There's no way.
You can give me a million
scientific reasons
of why it may not work.
But if you do it, the
body is designed to work.
It's designed to
regenerate itself.
This is what we're meant to do.
>> Whenever you
change your life,
there's some kind of detox
that's going to happen.
We have strong coping
mechanisms, defense mechanisms,
compulsive behaviors that we've
developed make it through life.
And when you change your life,
all of those are challenged.
You think those
are your friends.
But in fact, maybe
years ago they
were your friends
to help you make it
through a particular
time in your life.
But now they hinder the process.
>> And it's not hard to
figure out that a watermelon
and a steak are going to break
down but a little different
impact on your body.
Now, I'm not saying you
go eat watermelon only.
But if the more you can
put yourself in a position
where you're taking
in 70%, let's
say water content
foods, alive foods,
you're going to feel that
affect at two levels.
Your body will start to
cleanse because it has energy.
It's not being used up
because we use so much energy
up just in digestion.
Food's supposed to digest
in three or four hours.
And for many people, it's
digesting seven or eight
hours because we so
overload the system.
And we don't just overload
it with the amount of food,
we overloaded with
coffees and soda
pops and all these other
drinks that the body's got
to figure out how to deal with.
So common sense says if you want
to be alive, eat live foods.
>>KARYN: I'm a big proponent
of cleansing the body,
detoxifying.
And I don't believe that
there is only one method.
I believe there are many roads
to the top of the mountain.
It's finding what
resonates for you.
So people say to me
all the time, well,
which one is the
best one, Karyn?
Is yours the best?
Is this one the best?
Is that the best?
You know the best one?
The one you'll do.
The one that resonates with
you, the one that you'll do,
and the one where the person
teaching is resonating
with what you need to
learn for yourself.